hey big hello from raleigh north
carolina welcome to another episode of
b2b marketing and more and we talk about
everything b2b related from social media
pay media even down to
account specific engagement and the
sales enablement and that's the topic
that we want to talk about today which
is abm account based marketing and i got
somebody who is incredibly knowledge
about this specific field
danny nell
is account based engagement manager at
microsoft and he's joining us and share
with us in terms of some of the tactics
and also planning that he has been doing
for microsoft if i'm not mistaken he
also worked at sap before so plenty of
knowledge on the b2b side of things so
welcome danny hi pam good to be here
thank you awesome awesome so let's talk
about your favorite passionate topic
account based marketing so what is your
definition of abm the way i describe
account based marketing you know there's
always the people that say one to one
one to two and one to many right yeah
that's a very typical definition in
terms of a classification right when i
think about it i actually add a little
bit of a spin to it i relate it back to
basically restaurants
okay
a five to six star restaurant where you
walk in the door and the menu is made
specifically for you
everything the chef cooks is specific to
your diet and your dietary needs and
wishes
and it's all about you the this that one
specific customer that's one to one
account based marketing is the same
thing right one to few when i think
about one to few i think about more of
the restaurants where you can go in you
might be going in to get a subway
sandwich but you pick the different
ingredients that you want so everybody
that comes in there
is gonna get a subway but they're going
to get different ingredients so the the
sandwich that's given to them
is tailored to them specifically but
everybody gets a sandwich so that to me
is what would be a one to few
one to many is
the typical hamburger chain you're going
to get a burger it's going to be the
same burger everybody else gets the same
burger yeah standardized
same fries same everything right we all
know who those chains are
they're not bad they're just not gonna
necessarily tailor everything to you
because they're doing things in bulk and
that's the one to many so that's how i
look at them though the five-star
restaurant perfectly targeted right at
that specific customer and what they
want
the one to many the chain restaurants
they're targeted to everybody
and everybody gets the same thing
with that definition can i also ask your
opinion in terms of
is abm to be successful and effective
that we need to do a more one-to-one
type of approach or one too many do you
have any kind of like suggestion in
terms of what should that be if you can
afford it and you have the resources one
to one is the best way to go because
your
marketing can be tailored to each
specific account but if you don't have
the resources for that and or you don't
have the budget for that you might look
at going at a one to few type program
where like when i was at sap i covered
myself 36 to 40 accounts across six
industries
with a fairly small budget doing the one
to few type
abm
one to many to me is really good
targeted account marketing i don't
consider it account based marketing
because the content that is being sent
into those accounts is the same as other
accounts it's way too generic it's kind
of like washed out yeah
they may be interested in supply chain
or have shown intent on supply chain or
interest in supply chain
but that doesn't mean that just because
you send them a supply chain email that
you're doing abm it just means you're
targeting really well for longest time
many traditional marketers in the past
when they support sales organization and
way back down is not necessarily digital
driven and they do a lot of customer or
account specific type of events and that
can be counted as abm as well
and that's in supporting sales i have
people actually argue with me a lot of
abn type of activities because is
actually supporting sales that needs to
be part of the sales organization
and i also have people basically said
it's a marketing activities therefore it
should be part of marketing do you
actually have a strong opinion one way
or another in terms of abm what the
activities or the roles and
responsibilities should belong to sales
or the marketing side i wouldn't say
it's a strong opinion but it is my
opinion and i would say
that account based marketing needs to
stay in marketing
okay
because if you think about it there's a
lot of execution that happens with
account based marketing sales doesn't do
that type of execution they don't do
paid social they don't do linkedin
paid linkedin advertising so there's a
number of things that happen with
account based marketing
that don't occur in sales now it is
extremely in fact if you don't have
sales involved in your account based
marketing program it's not account based
yeah it's going to fail miserably yeah
it needs to get sales involvement
they've got to be on board and engaged
and be all in with it but at the same
time they don't have to execute it all
and there's a lot of things that are
done on the marketing side that just
wouldn't normally happen on the sales
side
but
can be brought to the sales side from
marketing so i think it needs to stay on
mar in the on the marketing side that
doesn't mean that sales can't give us
some budget and help support it right
and they also give us their partnership
and that's very important as well
but at the end of the day it is a
marketing function
it should be a company-wide function and
everybody should kind of think about it
and it should be an initiative and not
just a marketing function but a company
initiative
it is at some companies they're doing
really well that's other companies where
they're looking at it as a marketing
one-off they're they're struggling to
get it moving because they're not
getting the buy-in that they need from
sales you gotta look at it as a
cross-company initiative i agree with
you and i do agree and one of the
prerequisite and i emphasize all the
time and especially for anybody who are
who is interested doing abn and the
first prerequisite or the mandatory
requirement is actually get sales
involved and also get their buy-in that
i agree with you i also agree with you
abm
it's marketing and it makes sense to
actually stay within the marketing
function and
my reason
of making that recommendation is exactly
the same as viewers there's a lot of
marketing tactics that can leverage
even with the pay media even with other
event execution and a lot of that
marketing function and execution does
not reside if you will on the sales side
and it's better actually aligned with
more on the marketing side
with that being said i have another
question would like to get your thought
abn comes in many different flavors
and just like you said you know you can
look at in terms of category which is
one to one one to few one too many we
can also look at abn from what are
different combination of the marketing
tactics that you are going to leverage
to drive and do your abn outreach
do you actually have any recommendations
and suggestions in terms of when
that it's better to use what tactics for
example when is the best time to
actually use customer event marketing or
planning when is the best time to do a
programmatic ads when is the best time
to actually say you customize content
and then you tailor specifically for 10
to 15 accounts and they do a mini email
marketing campaign as a win back
campaign do you actually have any
thoughts to actually share with the
marketers who is listening what
instances they need to think about abm
and also what tactics that they need to
use there is no right answer to that
question to be honest there are a number
of right answers it depends right
situational you've got to think about
what your overall objectives are
what you're trying to accomplish with
the account if it's uh if you're just
trying to accomplish so something about
to cover reputation and relationship
then different tactics are going to be
come into play then as if then if you
were trying to
accelerate a sales deal so it depends on
the objective it depends on the content
that you're trying to get into them as
to which tactic you might use or
heck even the content
drives the type of asset that should be
created because if your content is a
linear story that you're trying to tell
you're going to use one type of asset
versus if you're trying to tell a really
emotional art of the possible type story
that may use a video with some really
emotive music in it and some things like
that so it just depends on the
objectives with the account it also
depends on the content that you're
trying to bring to the account at that
time as to which tactics you'll use to
get into them the reason i ask that
specific question is i got that question
all the time when i do abm or sales
enablement workshop
and many b2b marketers would like to
focus on
how
they want to kind of get a template you
know in this situation this is what they
need to do in that situation they need
to actually activate specifically
marketing channels or whatnot they want
to have some sort of template that's
easy to follow but i do agree with you
unfortunately
marketing is a little bushy
and uh it also depends on your objective
and also marketing has so many different
channels that you can dial up and dial
down it really depends not just your
objective and also the resource your
budget and also what marketing channels
that your company actually has
so i do agree with you it absolutely
depends on the situation you are in most
importantly what is the key objectives
you want to accomplish there's nothing
wrong with having some kind of template
guidance
but it needs to be guidance there's it
shouldn't be something that's so set in
stone it could be like if you're trying
to
work on your reputation with this
customer these are some things you can
do
and that's also going to depend on the
content you're trying to deliver to them
to help with that relationship it could
be an art of the possible video it could
be
some other type of asset where they're
they maybe they just don't know exactly
what you do
so you've got to get that content into
them in a certain way
product brochures are not necessarily
always the best thing
yes no it's not and it's also hard to
customize that by the way yeah
that's right well but you can pull
content from them
and repurpose the content that's in them
and make it customized but just handing
a product brochure to a customer without
doing some sort of versioning or
customization to it
it's going to land pretty flat these
days because they're more educated and
they want to get what does this mean for
me
me yeah as opposed to
what does it mean for everybody so you
mentioned a couple things and i want to
do a little bit deeper dive and you
mentioned content several times and it
sounds like there is a big correlation
in terms of account based marketing and
content especially in the b2b marketing
side of things or the purchasing cycle
is long like you have to find a way to
actually engage with uh prospects and if
you want to move the prospects along the
sales cycles and a lot of time the
conversation opener tends to be content
can you talk to us a little bit about
the content how to customize content
specifically for abn first of all you go
almost all the way back to the beginning
of the program right the insights that
you gather about the account and about
the industry and about technology within
the industry because those insights are
what is going to inform that content
because then you if you have the
insights about the company and how
they're looking at things and you have
the insights about the industry and how
the industry is looking at the same
topic overall
then you can take that and mesh it
together
you can repurpose content or you can
develop it
either way
it's got to utilize the insights that
you've learned about this customer to
make it relevant to them and to their
specific needs and pain points like it's
not going to land as well
and it's not going to it's not going to
do what you want it to do the other part
of that is depending on what you want
that content to do
and how you introduce it into that
customer and the format that it takes
and all of that
is going to really affect what the
outcome is
got it if you're looking to
enhance your relationship and reputation
with a customer versus increased revenue
there's two different approaches that
are going to have to take place there
because
enhancing your reputation is a very
different type of activity than
speeding up accelerating revenue let me
paraphrase what you just said to
customize your content for
abm there are a couple of things that
you need to do before you even customize
your content number one you have to have
some insight into the challenges of this
specific account
and what they are looking for
what are some of their pain points and
how the sales team are currently engaged
with them and what they want to get out
of it so you need to have some insight
and the second thing is when you are
looking into customizing the content you
have to think through the objectives you
want to accomplish and also trying to
find the content and that's relevant for
them and before you even customize or
repurpose the content that's right
then my next question related to that is
once you start customizing content for
accounts
and that brings up the biggest challenge
of abm which is scalability it's
incredibly hard to scale and just like
you said if you want to do it right it's
better to do it one to one and also one
too few but with that kind of parameters
if you will
it's very hard to scale
do you have any examples or any kind of
secret that you can share with us in
terms of how to scale that especially
across a different verticals so first of
all let's let's clarify the definition
of scale right because to some people's
scale means
taking something that you've done for
one or a few customers and taking it out
to thousands okay yep that's how i see
scalability right you scale you are like
a little bit more yeah massive yes
massive accounts but then there's also
the scalability that where you take
something that you've done for one bank
and you take that same piece and you do
it for 10 other banks
okay cool in our world those banks are
pretty big banks
and so what they're purchasing is high
dollar
there's a high dollar value associated
with it
so going from 1 to 10
can mean a significant amount of revenue
just in
accounts right
right so to follow that 80 20 rules the
80 of revenue come from like 20 or even
sometimes 10 percent of the counts
so if you look at it that way scale is a
whole different ballgame i'm not gonna
say you can go from one to ten much
easier than you can go from one to
masses one two thousand yeah
the difference is you can go from one to
ten where the 10 also getting versioned
content
for themselves right
whereas when you go one to masses
they're not getting version content
they're going to get the piece that was
developed for this bank as an example
like it's very industry segment specific
right it's very hard to go down to like
you know have a personalized type of
content down to
that level and but what you can do is
industry specific but it's not
necessarily 100 personalized right yes
you can take an asset that was built for
one industry
and repurpose it into another industry a
couple of ways one you take the base
asset so let's let's say you're talking
about a digital asset and the way that
digital asset was programmed behind the
scenes to act right
you can take that base asset and reskin
the graphics replace the content and
then all of a sudden you've got go from
and i did this at sap you go from an
automotive asset to an oil and gas asset
and that you take that oil and gas asset
and where in that version an oil truck
driving through an oil field and through
a shipping yard and through different
phases of the supply chain it's kind of
like adjacency like one content that's
related to probably the next industry
and then you morph that into probably
another industry that's more relevant to
the industry like
that you customer your content to i
don't know what's the best way to say it
it's really not going to morph it's
really just taking the base asset and
taking the fact that it does tell a
story a certain way
and then figuring out what other
industries you can tell that same type
of store into a linear story
same story
it could be a supply chain story so
automotive deals heavily with supply
chain retail built heavily with supply
chain supply chain challenges right
health care have a heavy supply chain
challenges
so you look at who's got those same kind
of challenges and how you can slightly
repurpose
some of the pieces of it maybe you
change the photo photography or you
change the background to look from
automotive to healthcare
change a little bit of opening and also
closing
yes
and then you also you can change the
content in the middle right totally and
that's fairly easy to do on a video i
had consumer products one time i had six
accounts right one was a one was a shoe
company one was a chicken company one
was a drink soft drink company
one was a beauty brands company but we
did a video that addressed all of those
five different types of companies but
was still
able to be versioned for each one
so you are looking for that horizontal
challenges that or the pinpoint that can
speak to all the industries in that case
the video was made about how they
interacted with their end user customer
so we took the focus off of the company
and talked about the experience they
wanted their customer to have and when
you do that
the experience you want your customer
have
whether if it's especially if in this
case it was a healthy experience or a
healthy lifestyle experience you can
work that with chicken you can work it
with
tennis shoes you can work it with you
know you can work it with some of those
different companies because they all
have a way to approach their customer
for a healthy lifestyle
you understand what the challenges are
and you also pick a topic that topic is
broad enough yet it's specific enough
that you can relate to all the six
different verticals and that's the
importance of having that insights that
we talked about at the beginning right
you understand the industry
within the industry and then you
understand the accounts and all of that
the insights that you gather help with
that scalability what you just touch on
you have to understand the demographics
of the audience you also have to
understand the technographics of the
companies or the brands they are using
that's right i have another question
this is budget related and we touch
about customization of content we talk
about the scalability
and it seems like abm is not free
and what is your advice for teams who
have little budget
can they still do
abm with low budget honest answer honest
yes sir honest answer well first of all
i'm going to say
low budget is relative right yeah
because some people if you're used to
having a two million dollar budget or a
three million dollar budget
and you hear someone's got a 300 000
budget that seems like a low budget but
to them that may be a big enough budget
it's relative but i would say
if you're going to start an abm program
you need to make sure that your budget
will last
for about six to 12 months where your
sales cycles are that long right your
budget needs to at least last the sales
cycle whatever your sales cycle is
and you then you need to make sure that
that budget can cover the number of
accounts you're trying to cover
so if you're only trying to cover one
account for a quarter
you may have enough budget to do that
and then you can prove out abm that way
and then hopefully get more budget my
first reaction was don't do it if you
don't have budget
i actually agree with you i mean if you
have very little budget my take on this
is don't try don't even bother and again
very little budget to some people could
be a lot of budget to other people i
hear you i understand everything is
relative but when people say they have
very little budget you know that means
very little budget even though it means
relative so in that case be smart about
how big you try to make your program and
if you can
maybe you only do it for one sales cycle
for one customer and prove it out that
way and then hopefully if you prove it
out you can get more budget
but if you're going to try it make sure
you scale it to the budget that you have
agreed sounds like what your advice is
abm is not free you definitely need
budget and resources to make it happen
another thing is if you want to pilot
the abm focus on targeted accounts and
make sure the budget can last 6 to 12
months or depending on your purchasing
cycle but i think on the b2b side
especially you sell
complex products six to 12 months i
think it's reasonable if somebody wants
a specific type of guidance how long do
i need it and the answer is about six to
twelve and that agree with that
another thing is kind of think it
through in terms of how you want to
allocate your budget and also
what kind of marketing tactics that you
want to do or to achieve your objectives
yeah if you want to launch a very
successful abm effort you really need
sales buy-in you also need sales
engagement so can you tell us
specifically in terms of what is a sales
responsibility during the abm planning
and implementation a lot of sales people
they don't like to be bothered
so how do you engage with them get the
things that you need
yet at the same time you know why they
are you are not like constantly knocking
on their doors well a couple of things
first of all you've got to understand
the sales cycle and you've got to
understand what motivates the sellers
for example i would never try to get a
salesperson engaged when they're in
their fourth quarter they are trying to
close the revenue and that people are
trying to really close the book yes i
get it so you understand the sales
cycles understand what motivates them
and then make sure that they understand
what account based marketing can bring
to them into their account
if
you don't skip the sense that they get
that or want that go to the next sales
person don't waste your time with
salespeople that don't want
account-based marketing because don't
try to persuade them don't even bother
yeah well you can try to persuade them
to an extent but after a while you can
tell if they're going to buy in or not
and if they're not going to buy in
then go on to the next account but it is
so critically important and sales has to
be engaged from this time we start
looking at insights so when their
account becomes a part of the account
based marketing program we start looking
at the insights for that account
they have a function as part of that
because they should be the ones who know
the account better than anybody else
so their account plan will be very
important as part of the overall content
of the insights that we gather to create
the program so from the very beginning
we're asking them about their
relationship with the customer we're
asking them about what we're focused on
with that customer and does the customer
actually want to focus on those things
and then we look at
where they are in the cycles of those
things because you know just because we
started abm doesn't mean they're on a
fresh slate they may be in the middle of
a sales cycle so we need to understand
where they are within the cycle and
what's happening with the executives
that they're talking to but once we
understand all of that then it goes into
creation of different things
different parts of the program so we may
do an engagement plan we may do a
contact mapping and a stakeholder
mapping they have to at least review
those things and make sure that they're
on point
then we do the creative the content i
mean sorry the messaging framework
and we look at the bills cycles and
things like that but once we have the
messaging framework they have to agree
to that because that informs the content
as well content are you going to create
yes so it's all about having their kind
of approval and buy-in all the way
through the development of the program
to make sure that we're still on target
with what's happening with them and the
account as well as they're agreeing to
what we're developing so that they will
be happy to either use it or have it
used with the account
basically engaging with sales from
beginning to the end especially i would
say at the planning stage have get their
input in terms of a specific account
that you want to engage and also
understand where are they in terms of
their sales stages also leverage them
and have them provide the insights about
the customers
using that information to develop your
messaging framework and value prop and
that will guide the content creation
and then i get the messaging framework
and the value part along with the
content you also review that with sales
right
absolutely but it's also the marketers
responsibility to bring insights to the
sellers
so they can tell us about the account
but there may be stuff that we dig up in
our research that they didn't know about
their account you share that it's a
two-way street
so we talked about getting the sales
engagement involvement during the
planning stage before you move on to
implementation
now you implement abm can you tell us in
terms of what are some of the common
success metrics or kpis for abm deal
acceleration so the the average deal
time 12 months and in these accounts
it's 10 months so have we
decreased the amount of time to close
also it depends on your objectives right
because if your objective is all about
relationships how many additional
executives have you
engaged with at this company that
weren't previously engaged so if you go
from 25 executives to 75 then you've
just
increased your number of executives by
200 percent that's pretty good so it
just it depends on your objectives and
what you're trying to accomplish with
the account as to
what's measurable around that it's some
of the things that you want to measure
it can't be done by a computer they're
subjective and there are things that the
sales people have to then tell us about
you know there's always those objectives
that you are those metrics that you
think you can measure for example you
may have one person at an account that
is the gatekeeper for a specific
purchase and if you create a video only
person that sees that video is that
person that's all you care about and you
have a massive breakthrough that's the
only thing you need and all of a sudden
yeah you can close the deal but look
when you report out on that how many
views did this video get well it was one
one
but what was this big deal that you know
it opened the door a little further you
know that's why it makes it a little
hard in some of the things that we do in
account based marketing because
sometimes we have such a specific goal
we're trying to reach
like that one that it doesn't sound like
a big metric but it really is at the end
of the day i think you brought up
another good point i think that's also a
dilemma that we marketers encounter all
the time when we set up a metric is that
balance of equality versus quantity
very good i actually have one more
question i would like to ask you
what is the one place you always want to
go and you always want to visit but
never did
and why
i'm going gonna change that a little bit
and say the one place that i've always
wanted to go but haven't yet
and i know you travel a lot by the way i
want to go to iceland and see aurora
borealis and just
see the i mean i've seen pictures but i
just want to go that's where i would
like to go
all right very good danny it's wonderful
to have you and thank you for coming to
my show and share your insight and
experience about abm again if you like
the video or audio please subscribe and
comment below in the comment side of
things i'll make sure i check and answer
them take care bye
[Music]
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]